a hard time getting jobs for the students. Was the
faculty then fairly well fixed? The faculty
didn't move around much. I think this is what I
don't think we see. I think I'd have to look in the
book to check our registration and student
numbers against dates, but I don't think the if
they couldn't work out and couldn't get jobs,
they'd go to school. I don't think the depression,
and this is just my opinion now without looking at
numbers, that I don't think the depression
affected the registration at school. Do you know
anything about that? I know that they hired a
number of students to work for small wages and have
a number of remembrances of them. Did you hire any
in your department to work for? worked for y'all. I
know agriculture hired him. Well, we used to have
student labor and that type of thing. To help out
students who needed the money to go to school.
Yeah, we had that. But I don't remember details
about the actual 25 cents. I mean, how much they
paid. I don't remember that. Let's jump up a little
ahead to the war years here in Indiana. Were you
here during the entire war years? I can remember
I had a one o'clock class
and I can remember and that particular class it was
a seminar class where the boys would get up and give
a technical talk two things make them get more used
to looking stuff up in the literature, magazines,
journals, and also getting up and presenting a
technical talk.
And I can remember, and this was a one o'clock
class, when I walked in that class that day,
So usually there was a lot of talk going on and
kidding back and forth, getting ready for before
class. And everything was so solemn and the like.
And because these boys knew that they were going to
be taken out before they had finished and the like.
And it was a solemn class.
They were taken out quite a bit early. Mm-hmm.
Things must have slowed down a great deal during
the war. Yeah, that's right. I think that's right.
Then, of course, well, in certain areas it
blossomed because they brought in a lot of Army and
Navy for special training classes and the like.
Did you handle any of those? No, I didn't. One of the
things that I was quite active in was...
because so many of the men in industry, technical
men in industry, were drafted out, or the
industrial companies were handicapped. And they
started what they called engineering, science,
management, or training. In other words, the
first job was to recruit teachers.
And mine was in chemical engineering. And then
recruit the industries
to put on classes so that they could have classes to
upgrade some of their lower class men so that they
could replace the men who had been drafted out at
higher levels. And we taught a lot of those kind of
things and engineers. Were these short courses or
full term courses? No, they were usually about two
months instead of three or four. So these were
really special students? Oh yes, oh these were all
special. A course on heat transfer, a course on
what they were. So you really lost most of your four
year students at that time. Right, this is right.
Stayed on for two years. I see. Did you lose any...
This is why I'd be interested in checking dates
with registration in the school. Did you lose any
of your staff because of the lighter load of
students? As I remember it, we did not. I don't
think we did. Some of them, I think, went and...
Then most of your work during the 40s was during the
war years was fairly well geared to the war itself
and to the various facets of government programs.
Any others that stick out in your mind? Anything
that might be of interest to you? Possibly a little
known? Any work you might have done here? Programs
directed? No,
I don't
recall too much.
See, this was quite a few years ago, some of these
questions. Yes, I understand. There's another.
You spoke, when we spoke together, about somebody
I might suggest
is...
There's a man here by the name of M.K. Thornton. His
nickname is Duke, Duke Thornton,
T-H-O-R-N-T-O-N.
And he was one of the older time teachers, kind of a
descriptive type when they were teaching
chemical engineering from the descriptive
courses. And
Don Harris, W.D. Harris came here. He just retired
now. And he's an Iowa State PhD man. And he came here
about 1935. I came in 38. And he probably, he knows a
lot about the early, if you're trying to get early
history and the like. And Thornton, Duke
Thornton, would know the real, if you really, he
knows some of these very early presidents. And he
was telling me, There's a men's garden club, and it
meets once a month. And I'm not a gardener, but a lot
of my good friends go to it, so I go to this men's
garden club mainly for the association rather
than for any way. And I used to take Duke to this
men's garden club. He's quite a talker, and he'd
get talking some of these old presidents' way and
the like. He can, I think, give you a lot of early
history. Let me digress just a little bit here.
Drop back to when you first came here in 1938. Could
you give me some first impressions, what you
thought about the school?
Was it just a sleepy little cow college?
Basically, it was a country boys' school. One of
the things that stands out in my
mind was that so many of the boys were first
generation of college students. In other words,
that's what kind of a boy I was when I was going to
school. And yet up north, a lot of these boy parents
had been to college. And when I came down here, why,
these boys, their parents were farm workers or
workers and had not been to
college, educated, higher education. Many of
them had probably never been to high school.
Right. And so that was one thing that I enjoyed
working. with these students who were first
generation of college students, so anxious to
learn, anxious to learn, and do a good job in
school. So you were very favorably impressed with
the students? Oh, I certainly was. I certainly
was. And I think it's, I've enjoyed, I have enjoyed
my work here very much.
Could you recall some of the people that you were
most closely associated with or that you recall
most favorably, people that made an impression on
you? Well, we were in this combined chemistry and
chemical engineering under Dr. Hedges. It was
an old-timer F.F. Bishop. He'd been here. I think
came about 1924 or something of that nature,
whereas I didn't come until 38. Dr. Harris didn't
come until 35. And
Old Bish was just a fine chap. He died maybe 10 years
ago, 15 years ago. I don't know. I should have these
dates in mind. But he was just, he came from upper
New York State, had gone to a small town in upper New
York State. He was a northern boy, but he'd come
down here in 24 and had been here for a good many
years before I ever landed here. And he had some
stories that it would really be nice to... They
used to have a trolley line between Bryan and
College Station, and an actual trolley ran back.
And you'd see most of the... Originally, most of
the people would live on the campus. They had
campus houses where the professors lived. And
there's one right in back of where I live. They
moved many of those around College Station.
Right. There's one man that bought ours, bought
that one. He used to be head of the publicity around
here years ago. And he bought it, and then he moved
away and sold it to a Baptist minister, I believe.
And so there are a good many of those old campus
houses.
There were many of them where Spence Park is now,
over beside the corn dorms there. There was a whole
row there. Well, then, so old Bishop, I remember,
he used to like that. He was not married. He was a
bachelor for many, many years. And then
eventually he did break down and get married. He
used to like to eat well and drink beer. Not just
drink beer. He very seldom would drink any
whiskey, but Old Fish was fine. He had a stroke here
several years ago. And what was his position? He
taught chemical engineering. And so the three of
us made up that new department of chemical
engineering. Professor Harris, me, and F.F.
Bishop. Do you have any interesting
recollection,
any interesting remembrance of Gib Gilchrist?
Well,
he was a strict disciplinarian, and I believe in
that. I think he was a very strict disciplinarian.
Well, I think I liked Mr. Gilchrist. Of course,
he's the one that hired me, really. Got me started
in this, so he
helped get the college station started as a
community.
That's where it got its name, Station on the
Railroad, where I lived off to.
In your long tenure here, have you any thoughts on
the involvement of the Corps of Cadets since you
came here? Seen any changes in it? Well, it used to
be mandatory, and everybody that came here had to
take it. But I thought it was a fine... The students
we got that way were very fine students. It taught
them discipline, taught them to do a job whether
they wanted to or not, if they were asked to do it,
whether they did it. And
their attitude, yes, sir. I thought that was very
good. Very fine training. Did you see any changes
over the years in the Corps that you thought were
good or bad? Well,
the first step was to let the boys go to school
without necessarily taking Corps activities.
And the students
did not like that, as far as I was concerned. It
worked out. It was done gradually enough so that I
saw no real
detriment. That didn't really happen, though,
until after World War II, right? I guess so. So many
civilian students.
They taught quite all kinds of classes during the
war. Code classes and electrical classes. kind of
trade school type of thing.
What were some of the more outstanding problems or
situations? Mr. Gilchrist? I don't think he can
put this. You want me to turn this in? No, it's
nothing. But I mean,
he was very embarrassed when it happened. They
were having some kind of a formal formal dinner and
they served fried chicken or something like that.
And I know the lady that was sitting next to him, she
was one of our good friends.
And one of them almost killed Chris, big chicken
leg flew off the plate and went right in the middle
of her lap and was he embarrassed.
Do you think he had a sense of humor? Oh, I think he
had a good sense of humor. I might think of some of
those
things. Were there any outstanding problems or
situations that confronted you during your
association with the college? You've mentioned,
one, the formation of the chemical engineering
department. Do you think of any major problems
that had to be overcome? situations which you
encountered in your history here. Well, it was
this drinking problem with the... Yes, you
mentioned that. Drinking problem. Taking empty
bottles home in their suitcases. Let's solve
that.
You mentioned you had problems with space Well,
when
we were
transferred out of the chemistry department,
Well, chemical engineering was just, teaching of
chemical engineering was just changing as I came
here. And the laboratory work was just changing.
And they had just bought a bunch of equipment to
teach the new type of chemical engineering
teaching. And we had just gotten it all installed
over here in the old chemistry building.
Then about just after we got it installed, while we
got moved over to the, of course, we were happy
about getting moved out. But then we had to
reinstall it all over again. So it was, but we used
student labor for that. We used a lot of student
labor, and that was good for them. Then we got into,
we could cut a hole in the floor if we wanted the
column to go up three stories. We could cut a hole in
the floor and we got in no trouble at all. Just cut a
hole in the floor. Whereas in this brand new
building we got, I don't think they'd like us
cutting. No, I don't think they'd appreciate that
at all.
Do you feel that you had any important
accomplishments while you were here at A&M? Do you
think you'd like to look back on any pride or
viewing accomplishments? Well, I think the
feeling was good working with the students, a very
good association with the students. This is what I
appreciate and I like. Accomplishments I think
was, I was not a big researcher, but I hired some
people who were. And I think one of the
men that took my place when I retired. He's done
very, very well here. And the way he came here, I
was teaching at North Carolina State before I came
here, and I had a senior in there who stayed on
teaching at North Carolina State. And we got along
well.
And so he had a boy come through that had been in the
Navy and came back to talk to his teacher, which was
one of my students, about graduate work. It would
be good to take graduate work. Why don't you get out
to Texas A&M? Lindsey used to teach here, and he'll
give you a good deal. So Charlie Holland, Charles
Holland, came down here with that
recommendation. And he's done real well.
He's developed a mathematical research and the
like and done fine.
When
it came my time to retire,
I went in to see Dean Benson and told him he'd have to
start looking around because I had to retire. And
he said, well, who would you recommend? And so I
told him, and I thought, Dr. Holland, if he
searched the country over, you would not find any
better man to take my place. So he hired him, and I
think he's done real well.
And Professor Harris has done quite well in
research on cottonseed oil and the like. He has
gotten a new idea recently,
using hydrogen as a fuel for automobiles instead
of gasoline. That's received some publicity. And
I think there's just been a recent article come out
of MIT on the same basis. Sort of a fuel cell type
thing?
I think, no, just a combustion of hydrogen. Rather
than production of electricity. Yeah, yeah, no.
Then we had a man here. We hired a man. Mr. Gilchrist
wanted to get started. And he hired a man by the name
of Kirkbride, C.G. Kirkbride, as a research
professor, distinguished research professor.
And Kirkbride was working for an American oil
company down in Texas City.
And he came in here, but he was a promoter.
And he used this job as a stepping stone to go to work
for Sun Oil Company. And he really did well. He got
himself on their board of directors and all of
that. He was with Sun Oil, so he really did a lot.
We've kept in touch with him. He promoted himself.
He stayed here only about two years, almost. And
yeah, he did, but we still keep in touch with him.
Then they hired another man to take his place by the
name of Murdock, M-U-R-D-O-C-H, who was really a
theoretical boy. He could lay on the mathematics
and the like real high.
He eventually went to work for Dow Chemical
Company and got moved down here in Texas City.
Freeport, Freeport instead of Texas City. And
then he got moved up to the Midland, big research
there, Midland, Michigan. There was a large
research group and has done well.
So a lot of our people, some of those people have
used us as stepping stones.
But Don Harris, Professor Harris, he's an Iowa
State man, he stayed here, came here before I did.
Then we had a man that came here and got interested
in cottonseed vegetable oils by the name of Bill
Harris, W.B. Harris. And he's on the staff now. He
came up through the cottonseed research, oilseed
research group. And he's started some very
interesting things in the department. on stack
sampling and that pollution and the like. And he's
had a group of people in from industry and have had
short courses of people. I think I attended to a
couple of them. Just some of my old students came in
and the like. Yeah, one of my students for lots of
time, well, just
about a week ago.
One former student and his wife and daughter is
coming. His daughter is going to register here.
And they just stopped over to see us. And he was
making arrangements for her to get in the
dormitory and that type of thing. And so they just
stopped over to see me. What makes me feel a little
bit, a little before that, one of the former
students was in. started telling me about his
granddaughter had just been born. So when my
students start telling me about their
grandchildren, it makes me wonder. This was what
you would consider then as your greatest success
and accomplishment are your statements. Right,
that's right, that's right. Well, I should have
brought something over, but one of our students
had been on the board of directors of Mobile Well
Company, done fine. This picture was in their
annual report and the like. Those are the things
that make you feel good. That will give you a real
sense of accomplishment, I'm sure. Well, we've
got them all. We've got a lot of vice presidents.
Selenese Corporation is a very good company. One
of our boys is vice president of that. These kind of
things is what, of course, We've got all kinds of
boys, and one of the things that makes me feel good
is some of the boys that had a heck of a hard time to
get through have done very well after they get out.
And I think it was because they were used to
working.
They had to work hard to get through, and they kept
that working hard themselves after they got out.
Whereas some of these boys that had it easy to get
through, they could coast, and so they coasted
after they got out. And these boys that had to work
hard would go ahead of them.
And then what made me feel good,
before we started graduate work here, why I would
encourage our boys to go to graduate school. And we
had a... I got one up in Princeton, and he really did
well. And I'd see, I'd meet these people from this
ASAS, Society of Engineering Education. I got to
know people all over the country through that
organization. And I got to know this... head of the
department at Princeton real well. And he said, if
you have any more boys like him, all you have to do is
just tell him, I can recommend them. And he'd get
them in. And we did that for three or four boys. And
he told me they'd put some, we'd had so many A&M boys
up there, they'd put Texas A&M Research
Laboratory.
And we had a fine relationship with Wisconsin,
Michigan, Princeton. So having that kind of a role
was satisfying that one of our boys went from up to
Wisconsin. Now he's head of the research for the
Standard Oil in New Jersey. Or maybe not the head,
but one of the higher ups in their research
organization. Mathis, M-A-T-H-I-S.
Oh, you know, Vice President of Shell, I don't
think of his name, but he was down in one of their
islands where they have a very large research,
large operating refinery and the like. You might,
if you have some time, jot down a list of your
distinguished students and those that have
changed some continents. We have an interest in
people who have done this. Manager of... There's a
big caustic soda plant, chlorine caustic soda, by
mining salt, passing electricity through it. You
generate chlorine and make sodium hydroxide
caustic soda. And one of our boys had manned a big
plant and those kind of things and all that. Let's
shift gears just a moment here and ask you what you
might regard as some of the greater weaknesses or
failures or possibly lost opportunities or
misdirections of the university during your
association? Just a little bit critical if you
can. Think of anything that might have been better
had it not occurred or some changes. Well, I think
some of these changes have been made. Getting a
little more cultural material in our courses.
I think certainly you need to know a lot of
mathematics and science and the like, but I think
they put in a little bit more education in English
and that type of thing, which I think is good. I
think that's very important. Yeah, I think so too.
I used to encourage students to...
take more of that. In other words, one complained
to me how the English department used to make them
write. He didn't like that. And so the way I
counteracted that was, the only way your boss up on
top above your immediate superior, but two or
three, four notches up, is reports which you write
and get sent upstairs. And if you don't know how to
write a good report, Why, the better you can make a
report that's going upstairs, the better off
you'll be considered by those that have something
to say. So I was encouraging people to not look down
on English
as a tool, really. In other words, the more liberal
arts that an engineer could take, the more
well-rounded an engineer could become. That's
right. That's exactly right. I think there's a
trend by many people today to try to take the
liberal arts out. I've heard some engineering
people who would like to get more pure engineering
in and reduce the number of liberal arts courses.
Well, I think that's very interesting. What do you
regard as some of the more outstanding changes
that have occurred at A&M during your
association?
Well, I think all of this. Getting in, well, it's
far enough past now, I think, is letting students
in, civilian students. I think this is a good idea.
And letting the girls in, I think, is a good idea. It
seems like our tremendous growth has occurred
after we began to let girls in. Well, again, I think
there's a limit on growth, too. Yes. I think
there's a limit on growth, too, but the same. Well,
I think broadening the school from a strictly
military school, I think, was a good idea. I think
then we are becoming a university. Right. That's
right. I have one personal question. Well, not
really personal. On some research I was doing, did
you ever know a man by the name of G.S. Fraps? Fraps?
Oh, you mean the old-timer? Yeah. Did you know? He
used to live right down the street from me. He was a
state chemist, and then he went on to TVA, I
believe. Not Asbury. I'm talking about Fraps.
Asbury's later. Fraps. Fraps was an old-timer. He
was a character. I knew him personally. You did?
Oh, yeah. But some of the stories that they used to
tell about him He wrote prolifically. I have
stacks and stacks of things. He did a lot of work for
the experiment station. He did most of their
fertilizer analysis. Many of their feed
analysis. And I was simply wondering about him. We
were doing a bibliography on the experiment
station, and I kept running across this man,
Fraps, who'd been here for, seemed like he put
first articles in the 1890s and by the late 1830s, I
mean 1930, he's still writing. And I just wondered
what kind of man he was. Well, he was a very
penny pincher. He was frugal. Very frugal. He used
to give out. He ran that office just like Hedges
used to run his operation.
They had to come and ask him for a pencil. And then
they'll say to whittle their pencil down to that
long white. You wouldn't give them a knowing. This
is a story I've heard. I didn't work there, but they
say he was a very, there are some old stories about
old Frapps, which would be very good to... I think
he was something of a campus character then. Yeah,
he was. Then evidently one of his replacements...
Sam Asbury also became something of a campus
character, too. Well, I was just curious about
that. That was something I hadn't run across, and I
hadn't run across any files on it. You might want to
talk to this fellow, Duke Thornton. He's an
old-timer around here. Okay, I'll do that. Then
there's another man you may wish to talk to,
although I don't know how... His name is Snuggs.
S-N-U-G-G-S, I guess. I think he lives up on
Harrington. But he has, his memory failed him, and
you may, I think it'd be good to talk to him and see
what you can get out of him, but I've heard that his
memory has failed some, but it doesn't every, I'm,
I know that I have a harder time to bring things up
out of the past. One man says, well, it goes in one
ear and out the other. Well, maybe really that
happens because there's nothing in between to
stop it. Let me turn this off. OK, you were. OK, I'm
going to tell you how I got into politics.
There used to be part of the state constitution
that said, that you could not draw state pay and
still hold a position of honor and trust outside of
your job.
And
the city of College Station was incorporated.
Some was, I don't know, about 38 or 40, something in
that region, about 40, say. And we had no trouble of
having our city council elected from the staff.
There was no trouble at all. And then the city did
not put a street, or they did put a street, where
some individual did not want that street or wanted
the street and didn't get it. And he got mad at the
city council, and he found this statement in the
Constitution. And he brought suit against the
college for paying the state pay because these
people held a position of honor and trust as a city
council member. Who brought suit? Do you remember
his name? Well, I'll probably think of it and
just... I hope before I leave. And
so as soon as... this suit was legally brought, the
college stopped paying these people who were on
the city council. And one of my good friends was in
that position, and he came to me and asked me if I
would run in his place so he could get his money from
the college. And so I agreed to do that, and I
happened to win. Who was this that came to you?
I'll get all of this.
But the interesting thing about it, to continue
that a little further, was that instead of paying
these people, the college put it in the bank. And
once their successor was legally sworn in, And
these people got all of their back pay in one big
lump sum. Well, at least they didn't lose it. Yeah.
Well, I'll get you these names. So you went ahead
and you were elected when? 1971, was it? I guess so.
Are you still serving on the city? No. Go a little
bit farther. Is there anything interesting that
happened while you were on the city council that
might be interesting? worthy of note if anybody
ever wants to write anything about the history of
College Station. Can you think of any big
decisions that were made or weighty proposals
that came before the council? No, I'll write off
hand. On the spur of the moment, it takes time to
have those things come up.
Fred Bryson is still... Yes, I've got to talk to
him. We have a short tape that was made by Henry
Devloff. about 30 minutes. I've got to listen to
that before I go talk to him again, make sure I don't
duplicate any material. He likes to talk. I'm sure
he'd be a good one to do. Fred Bryson likes to talk?
Oh, yes, yes. Well, he's a... I have a very high
opinion of Fred Bryson, too. Yeah, he came out. I'm
a Little League coach. He...